\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename maxbutt.info
@settitle Maxbutt User Manual
@c %**end of header

@set EDITION Maxbutt SSB
@set UPDATED $Date: 2024/2/25 17:57:00 $
@set VERSION SSB

@titlepage
@title Maxbutt User Manual
@subtitle @value{EDITION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Charles Moid
@end titlepage

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Maxbutt: (maxbutt).             Secure Scuttlebutt client.
@end direntry

@c @setchapternewpage off

@contents

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@noindent

@ifinfo
This is the user manual for Maxbutt.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::
* Erlbutt::
* Commands::
* Customization::

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Introduction

* History::                     How we got here.
* Goals::                       What we hope to accomplish.

Erlbutt

* SSB-Server::                  Scuttlebutt implementation.
* BEAM::                        Foundation on Distel.

Commands

* Browsing Feeds::              Fetching and navigating a feed.
* Thread Tracing::              Following tangle threads.
* Publishing::                  Writing posts, replies, and votes.
* Social Actions::              Following, unfollowing, and blocking feeds.

Customization

* User Options::                Variables you can set via M-x customize.

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Introduction, Erlbutt, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

Maxbutt is a simple SSB client that runs as an emacs extension.

@ifinfo
Some background on Maxbutt, why we decided to build it, and what we hope to achieve.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* History::                     How we got here.
* Goals::                       What we hope to accomplish.
@end menu

@node History, Goals, Introduction, Introduction
@section History

@node Goals,  , History, Introduction
@section Goals

@node Erlbutt, Commands, Introduction, Top
@chapter Erlbutt

@menu
* SSB-Server::                        Scuttlebutt Implementation
* BEAM::                              Foundation on Distel
@end menu

@node SSB-Server, BEAM, Erlbutt, Erlbutt
@section SSB-Server

@node BEAM, , SSB-Server, Erlbutt
@section BEAM

@node Commands, Customization, Erlbutt, Top
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Browsing Feeds::
* Thread Tracing::
* Publishing::
* Social Actions::
@end menu

@node Browsing Feeds, Thread Tracing, Commands, Commands
@section Browsing Feeds

@deffn Command ssb-browse-feed feed-id &optional limit
Fetch and display messages from the SSB feed @var{feed-id}.
@var{feed-id} is the full @code{@@<pubkey>=.ed25519} string.
@var{limit} defaults to @code{ssb-browse-limit}.

When called interactively, prompts for both the feed ID and the
message limit, with the current value of @code{ssb-browse-limit}
shown as the default.

The feed opens in an @code{ssb-feed-mode} buffer.  Key bindings:

@table @kbd
@item n
Move to the next message and display its content below.
@item p
Move to the previous message.
@item @key{RET}
Open the message at point in a window below.
@item g
Refresh: refetch the feed from the node and re-render the buffer.
@item t
Trace the tangle thread rooted at the message at point.
@item f
Browse the feed of the author at point in its own buffer.
@item r
Reply to the message at point (@pxref{Publishing}).
@item +
Send a like vote for the message at point.
@item -
Send an unlike vote for the message at point.
@item F
Follow the author at point (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item U
Unfollow the author at point (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item B
Block the author at point (asks for confirmation) (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item W
List who the author at point follows (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item D
Toggle automatic peer dialing on the node.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-refresh-feed
Refetch the feed shown in the current buffer with the same message
limit it was originally fetched with, and re-render it.  Newly
replicated messages appear at the top.  Bound to @kbd{g} in feed
buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-my-id
Display the local erlbutt node's own feed ID in the minibuffer.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-dialer-toggle
Toggle the erlbutt node's automatic peer dialing and show the new
state in the minibuffer.  When disabled, the node stops opening
outbound connections to LAN and pub peers; inbound connections are
unaffected.  The startup default comes from the @code{@{peer_dialer,
Bool@}} entry in @file{ssb.cfg}.  Bound to @kbd{D} in feed, thread,
and following buffers.
@end deffn

@node Thread Tracing, Publishing, Browsing Feeds, Commands
@section Thread Tracing

@deffn Command ssb-show-thread
Open the tangle thread rooted at the message at point.

Fetches the full tree structure from erlbutt and displays it in an
@code{ssb-thread-mode} buffer.  Each entry shows the author and
message key, indented by depth.  Message content is @emph{not} loaded
until you explicitly request it with @key{RET}.

@end deffn

The thread buffer (@code{ssb-thread-mode}) provides the following
key bindings:

@table @kbd
@item n
Move to the next thread entry.
@item p
Move to the previous thread entry.
@item @key{RET}
Fetch and display the full content of the entry at point in a window
below.  This is the only action that loads message content from erlbutt.
@item c
Collapse or expand the subtree rooted at the entry at point.
The cursor stays in place.
@item t
Same as @kbd{c} — toggle collapse/expand of the subtree at point.
@item f
Browse the feed of the author at point in its own buffer.  Works with
point anywhere on the entry's line.
@item r
Reply to the message at point (@pxref{Publishing}).
@item +
Send a like vote for the message at point.
@item -
Send an unlike vote for the message at point.
@item F
Follow the author at point (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item U
Unfollow the author at point (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item B
Block the author at point (asks for confirmation) (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item W
List who the author at point follows (@pxref{Social Actions}).
@item D
Toggle automatic peer dialing on the node.
@end table

@node Publishing, Social Actions, Thread Tracing, Commands
@section Publishing

@deffn Command ssb-post
Compose and publish a new SSB post.

Opens the @code{*ssb-compose*} buffer (@pxref{Compose Buffer}).
Type your message and send it with @kbd{C-c C-c}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-reply
Compose a reply to the message at point.

Available in both @code{ssb-feed-mode} and @code{ssb-thread-mode}
via the @kbd{r} key.  Opens the @code{*ssb-compose*} buffer with a
read-only header identifying the message being replied to.  The reply
is published with tangle links so it appears correctly in thread views.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-vote-like
Send a @code{+1} (Like) vote for the message at point.
Available via @kbd{+} in feed and thread buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-vote-unlike
Send a @code{-1} (Unlike) vote for the message at point.
Available via @kbd{-} in feed and thread buffers.
@end deffn

@subsection Compose Buffer
@anchor{Compose Buffer}

@code{ssb-post} and @code{ssb-reply} open a @code{*ssb-compose*}
buffer running @code{text-mode} with the @code{ssb-compose-mode}
minor mode active.  A read-only header at the top shows the action
being performed; everything below it is freely editable.

@table @kbd
@item C-c C-c
Send the composed text to the erlbutt node and close the buffer.
On success the published message key is shown in the minibuffer.
@item C-c C-k
Discard the buffer without sending.
@end table

@node Social Actions, , Publishing, Commands
@section Social Actions

These commands publish SSB @code{contact} messages expressing your
relationship to another feed.  All three read the author from the
@code{ssb-author} text property at point, so they work from any line
in a feed or thread buffer.

@deffn Command ssb-follow
Follow the author at point.  Publishes a contact message with
@code{following: true}.  Bound to @kbd{F} in feed and thread buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-unfollow
Unfollow the author at point.  Publishes a contact message with
@code{following: false}.  Bound to @kbd{U} in feed and thread buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-block
Block the author at point.  Publishes a contact message with
@code{blocking: true} and @code{following: false}.  Asks for
@code{yes-or-no-p} confirmation before publishing.  Bound to @kbd{B}
in feed and thread buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command ssb-following &optional feed-id
List the feeds @var{feed-id} currently follows, one per line, with
the profile name first when the feed has set one.  Interactively,
@var{feed-id} is the author at point when there is one, else the feed
shown in the current buffer; with neither it falls back to the local
node's own feed.  The list is served from erlbutt's maintained follow
graph, so it reflects all follow and unfollow messages stored so far.
Bound to @kbd{W} in feed and thread buffers.

In the resulting @code{ssb-following-mode} buffer:

@table @kbd
@item n / p
Move between entries.
@item RET / f
Browse the feed at point.
@item W
Drill into who the feed at point follows.
@item g
Refresh the list.
@item U
Unfollow the feed at point.
@item B
Block the feed at point (asks for confirmation).
@end table
@end deffn

@node Customization, , Commands, Top
@chapter Customization

All maxbutt options belong to the @code{maxbutt} customize group.
Access them with @kbd{M-x customize-group @key{RET} maxbutt @key{RET}}.

@menu
* User Options::
@end menu

@node User Options, , Customization, Customization
@section User Options

@defopt ssb-node
The Erlang node name of the running erlbutt instance, as a symbol.
Default: @code{erlbutt@@localhost}.

Must match the @option{-sname} used when starting the release.  Change
this if you run erlbutt under a different name or on a remote host.
@end defopt

@defopt ssb-browse-limit
Default number of messages fetched by @code{ssb-browse-feed}.
Default: @code{2000}.

Can be overridden on a per-invocation basis when calling
@code{ssb-browse-feed} interactively.
@end defopt

@bye

